
===PAGE 1===
Embodied VideoAgent: Persistent Memory from Egocentric
Videos and Embodied Sensors Enables Dynamic Scene Understanding
Yue Fan1⋆, Xiaojian Ma1⋆†, Rongpeng Su1,2, Jun Guo1,3, Rujie Wu1,4, Xi Chen1, Qing Li1†
1State Key Laboratory of General Artificial Intelligence, BIGAI, Beijing, China
2University of Science and Technology of China 3Tsinghua University 4Peking University
{fanyue,maxiaojian,liqing}@bigai.ai
https://embodied-videoagent.github.io
Abstract
This paper investigates the problem of understanding dy-
namic 3D scenes from egocentric observations, a key chal-
lenge in robotics and embodied AI. Unlike prior studies
that explored this as long-form video understanding and
utilized egocentric video only, we instead propose an LLM-
based agent, Embodied VideoAgent, which constructs scene
memory from both egocentric video and embodied sensory
inputs (e.g. depth and pose sensing). We further introduce
a VLM-based approach to automatically update the mem-
ory when actions or activities over objects are perceived.
Embodied VideoAgent attains significant advantages over
counterparts in challenging reasoning and planning tasks in
3D scenes, achieving gains of 4.9% on Ego4D-VQ3D, 5.8%
on OpenEQA, and 11.7% on EnvQA. We have also demon-
strated its potential in various embodied AI tasks including
generating embodied interactions and perception for robot
manipulation. The code and demo will be made public.
1. Introduction
Understanding dynamic 3D scenes is crucial to the devel-
opment of generally capable embodied AI [17, 51–53]. In
this paper, we investigate approaching this problem using
egocentric observations [5, 7, 11, 20, 26, 33, 37], which is
one of the most intuitive way of how humans and robots
perceive the world around them. The key challenges in-
clude: 1) Making sense of environments from lengthy ego-
centric videos and other forms of embodied sensory inputs
(depth maps, camera poses, etc.) [17, 41, 44]; 2) Handling
dynamic environments as actions and activities might be
performed by embodied agents themselves and other co-
⋆Equal contribution.
†Corresponding authors.
Figure 1. Embodied VideoAgent is a multimodal agent that 1) builds
scene memory from both egocentric video and embodied sensory
input; 2) utilizes multiple tools to query this memory; 3) activates
embodied action primitives to interact with the environments, ef-
fectively fulfills various user requests.
habited characters [5, 11, 33]; 3) Maintaining a persistent
memory about the scene that allows frequent update over
time [12, 18, 40]. However, existing efforts on this front
mostly adopt end-to-end pretrained multimodal large mod-
els (MLMs) [17, 24, 25, 27, 62, 64, 65]. Their capabili-
ties of handling long-form videos and embodied sensory
observations have been questioned by several prior stud-
ies [23, 34, 46, 56], especially when the scene being de-
picted is highly volatile with complex events and spatial-
temporal dependencies [15, 19, 20]. Some sophisticated
MLMs coming out recently have attained great progress in
understanding long-form videos and the underlying embod-
ied scenes [47, 48, 54], but the computation cost can grow at
a prohibitively expensive rate. All these issues have hindered
the progress of deploying robust dynamic scene perception
pipelines on edge devices like robots in the wild.
Unlike these end-to-end models, there has been rapid de-
velopment in another family of multimodal understanding
1
arXiv:2501.00358v2  [cs.CV]  9 Jan 2025

===PAGE 2===
approaches – multimodal agents [7, 9, 14, 45, 55]. These
methods utilize the advanced reasoning and tool-usage abil-
ity of pretrained large language models (LLMs) and solve
intricate multimodal tasks by calling several tool models (ob-
ject understanding, question answering, etc.) interactively,
alleviating the issue of expensive training and inference cost.
Recently, they have been ported to long-form video under-
standing and have demonstrated remarkable performances
and cost-efficiency over end-to-end counterparts [7, 9, 45].
Their key idea is to construct a temporal memory from the
video and invoke several tools to query the memory. How-
ever, extending them to understanding dynamic 3D scenes is
non-trivial. The challenges as mentioned earlier require the
system to have a comprehensive yet precise understanding
of objects in the scene subjected to constant change due to
various actions and activities being performed by the embod-
ied agents and other characters. Our early explorations (see
Section 3) on simply applying these systems (e.g. VideoA-
gent [7]) to dynamic 3D scenes in embodied environments
have suggested that merely constructing scene memory from
video with hand-crafted pipelines cannot meet the aforemen-
tioned requirements, especially on the precise understanding
of objects and the support of dynamic memory update, lead-
ing to unsatisfactory performances on these tasks.
To this end, we propose Embodied VideoAgent, a simple
yet effective multimodal agent for understanding dynamic
3D scenes. Our agent is based upon VideoAgent [7], a recent
multimodal agent that can solve various video understand-
ing tasks by constructing memory on long-form videos and
performing LLM-based queries over the memory. Our key
innovation is to augment it with two novel designs for dy-
namic scenes in embodied environments: 1) a persistent
object memory that is constructed from both egocentric
video and embodied sensory input (depth maps and cam-
era poses). Fusing video with these modalities could help
build more precise memory on scene objects, which is cru-
cial to embodied reasoning and planning; 2) a VLM-based
memory update mechanism that automatically identifies
relevant objects and their state changes when actions and
activities are being perceived, then promptly updates the
corresponding entries in the persistent object memory. In
addition to understanding tasks, we explore the potential of
Embodied VideoAgent in generating embodied user-assistant
interactions. Specifically, we introduce an LLM-based multi-
agent framework [10], where a user agent proposes tasks,
and an assistant agent (effectively an Embodied VideoAgent)
progressively explores the scene to complete these tasks.
The assistant provides feedback to the user while tracking
its evolving understanding of the dynamic scene using per-
sistent object memory.
We conduct extensive evaluations of Embodied VideoA-
gent on several embodied scene understanding tasks, includ-
ing object localization from free-form queries in egocen-
tric views of dynamic scenes with Ego4D-VQ3D [11, 31],
general question answering on embodied 3D scenes with
OpenEQA [32], and question answering on long-form em-
bodied robot-environment interactions with EnvQA [8]. We
compare Embodied VideoAgent against both the canoni-
cal end-to-end multimodal LLMs and other multimodal
agents. Results confirm the advantages of Embodied VideoA-
gent: achieving gains of 4.9% on Ego4D-VQ3D, 5.8% on
OpenEQA, and 11.7% on EnvQA. Our further exploration
has covered its applications in generating embodied interac-
tion and perception for robot manipulation.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows:
• We propose a persistent object memory along with a VLM-
based automatic memory update method to construct and
maintain comprehensive yet precise memory of dynamic
3D scenes from both egocentric and embodied (depth
maps, camera poses) sensory observations.
• With the resulting agent, Embodied VideoAgent, we fur-
ther develop an LLM-based multi-agent framework that
can produce embodied user-assistant interactions, where
the user proposes tasks and the assistant (an Embodied
VideoAgent) progressively explores the scene to complete
these tasks.
• We conduct thorough evaluations of Embodied VideoA-
gent on various embodied scene understanding tasks
against both end-to-end multimodal LLMs and multimodal
agent baselines, siding with applications in two embodied
AI tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of Embodied
VideoAgent.
2. Embodied VideoAgent
We illustrate the proposed Embodied VideoAgent in Figure 2.
Since our agent is based upon VideoAgent [7], we will first
quickly recap its key ideas (Section 2.1), then move on to
cover the key new memory and tool design, including persis-
tent object memory and VLM-based memory update method
(Section 2.2). Finally, we will detail how we utilize Em-
bodied VideoAgent for generating embodied user-assistant
interactions (Section 2.3).
2.1. Recap: VideoAgent
VideoAgent [7] adopts the following pipeline: given a video
V sliced into n segments [v1, . . . , vn], it first constructs a
temporal memory MT , which captures the textual descrip-
tions (and features) of each segment; and an object memory
MO, which tracks and store the occurrences of objects and
persons in the video. Then for any incoming task, an LLM
decomposes it into several subtasks and invokes tool mod-
els to query the temporal and object memory. Finally, the
responses of all tool-calling will be aggregated and sent to
an LLM for a final answer.
Temporal and Object Memory.
For temporal memory,
it is effectively a table with n rows, where n is the number
2

===PAGE 3===
Figure 2. An overview of Embodied VideoAgent. Left: We first translate the egocentric video and embodied sensory input (depth maps and
camera poses) into structured representations: persistent object memory and history buffer. While the memory can be updated using VLM to
support dynamic scenes where actions are being performed constantly; Right: the LLM within Embodied VideoAgent is prompted to fulfill
the user’s request by interactively invoking tools to query the memory and calling embodied action primitives to complete the task.
of short (2s) video segments. Each row has four columns:
segment ID, caption of this segment scaption, visual feature of
this segment evideo and text embedding of the caption ecaption.
For object memory, it includes a SQL database and a feature
table of all identified objects in the video. The SQL database
has three columns: unique object ID, object category, and
the segment IDs where the object occurs. Its construction
requires object detection, tracking, and re-ID. The feature
table stores the CLIP feature of the object image.
Tool-usage and Inference.
VideoAgent utilizes four tools
– caption retrieval, segment localization, visual question an-
swering, and object memory query to access the temporal
and object memory. The inference process is straightforward:
given an input query, VideoAgent selects an appropriate tool,
invokes it, and stores the result in a buffer. This loop con-
tinues until VideoAgent either decides to stop or reaches a
predefined maximum number of steps, after which it gener-
ates a final response based on the buffer’s content.
Readers are encouraged to refer to [7] for more details.
2.2. Memory and Tools of Embodied VideoAgent
Embodied VideoAgent adopts the following memory and
tool design upon its predecessor VideoAgent: given an ego-
centric video downsampled to n frames V = [I1, . . . , In],
with depth map and camera 6D pose of each frame D =
[(d1, p1), . . . , (dn, pn)] (d and p denote depth map and cam-
era pose, respectively), it constructs the original tempo-
ral memory MT of VideoAgent (not shown in Figure 2),
the newly introduced persistent object memory MO, and
two simple history buffers. Four tools (
query_db,
temporal_loc,
spatial_loc,
vqa) can be in-
voked to access the memory. Several embodied action primi-
tives are available to be called to interact with the physical
environment. Details can be found below:
Persistent Object Memory MO.
It maintains an entry
for each perceived object in the 3D scene. Each object entry
includes the following fields: a unique object identifier Oi
with object category (ID), a state description of the object
(STATE), a list of related objects and their relations (RO),
3D bounding box of the object(3D Bbox), visual feature of
the object (OBJ Feat) and visual feature of the environment
context where the object locates(CTX Feat). These fields
provide comprehensive details of scene objects and their
surroundings.
Construction of MO.
Given an incoming 2D egocentric
frame Ii, depth map di and camera pose pi, we first use
an open-vocabulary object detection model called YOLO-
world [4] to extract objects and their categories (the ID field)
from 2D frame Ii. Its state description will be initialized as
“normal” (the STATE field). The CLIP feature of frame Ii
and the cropped object picture using the 2D bounding box
will become the CTX Feat field and the OBJ Feat field,
respectively. Further, by utilizing the depth map di along
with camera pose pi, we can obtain the object’s 3D bound-
ing box using 2D-3D lifting (projection) [13] (the 3D Bbox
field). Then we follow the prior practice [17, 21, 64] to
extract the relations among the detected objects using their
3D bounding boxes (the RO field). So far, only two pairs
of relations “on/uphold” and “in/contain” are considered.
To avoid duplicated object entries in MO, an object re-ID
procedure [7] is also conducted before inserting an object
as a new entry. Objects are considered identical based on
3

===PAGE 4===
Figure 3. Visualization of the entries in persistent object memory MO. Each 3D bounding box corresponds to an entry in the memory. As
the video proceeds, objects (e.g. the large canned tomato paste) can be tracked/re-IDed and have their memory entries updated.
Figure 4. An illustration of our VLM-based memory update method.
This approach effectively prompts the VLM to associate an action
with relevant object entries in memory through visual prompting,
identifying the entries corresponding to the action’s target objects.
their proximity in both visual appearance and 3D location.
Once an object is re-IDed to an existing object entry, we will
update its 3D Bbox, Obj Feat, and CTX Feat fields using
moving average, while the RO field will be re-computed
along with other objects detected in the current frame. Due
to space constraints, details of our re-ID algorithm and ob-
ject entry update after re-ID are provided in Appendix. A
visualization of how object entries are created and updated
in MO can be found in Figure 3.
Memory Update with VLM. A key challenge in persistent
object memory lies in updating memory when actions are
performed on objects, especially under conditions of visual
occlusion (e.g., hand-can interaction in Figure 3). We ad-
dress this issue by leveraging action information and vision-
language models (VLMs). As shown in Figure 4, when an
action occurs (e.g., “C catches the can”), we first retrieve
relevant object entries in MO associated with the “can” that
are visible in the current frame (in this example, two en-
tries). For each entry, we render its 3D bounding box onto
the frame and prompt the VLM to determine if the object
within the box is the action’s target. Such visual prompt-
ing [1, 58] associates the action with corresponding entries
in the object memory. Finally, we programmatically update
these entries, such as modifying the STATE field to “in-hand”
since the action is “catches the can”. Additional details on
the programmatic update are provided in Appendix.
History Buffer. In addition to persistent object memory that
provides real-time information on current scene objects, we
found that maintaining a simple record of past perception and
action history further enhances dynamic scene understanding.
For this purpose, we introduce two history buffers: an action
buffer, which logs each action performed along with the
action timestamp, action name, target object ID (identified
using the VLM-based method), and the CLIP feature of the
current frame; and a visible object buffer, which logs each
detected object along with the detection timestamp, object
ID, and 3D bounding box. These buffers are also referenced
by the tools described later.
Tools and Embodied Action Primitives. We equip Embod-
ied VideoAgent with four tools:
query_db(·), which
processes natural language queries to retrieve the top-10
matching object entries by searching both the persistent
object memory and history buffers;
temporal_loc(·),
inherited from VideoAgent, which maps natural language
queries to specific video timesteps;
spatial_loc(·),
which provides a 3D scene location (aligned with the cam-
era’s coordinate system) based on object and room queries;
and
vqa(·), which answers open-ended questions about
a given frame. Additionally, the agent can perform seven
embodied action primitives: chat() for user interaction;
search(·) to conduct exhaustive scene searches for speci-
fied objects; goto(·) for location navigation; and open(·),
close(·), pick(·), and place(·) for object interactions.
Further implementation details on tools and action primitives
4

===PAGE 5===
are provided in Appendix.
Note on camera poses. While readers may view the require-
ment for precise 6D camera poses as idealized for real-world
embodied agent settings, Embodied VideoAgent demon-
strates robustness to pose estimation noise. In our experi-
ments, camera poses for Ego4D-VQ3D (Section 3.1) and En-
vQA (Section 3.2.3) are estimated using COLMAP [43] and
DUSt3R [49], respectively, which are inherently noisier than
the ground truth poses available in OpenEQA (Section 3.2.2).
Despite these variances, our agent consistently achieves
substantial improvements over baselines (e.g., VideoAgent)
across all three settings. In Appendix, we also present addi-
tional results on OpenEQA using estimated noisy poses to
further substantiate this robustness. We hypothesize that our
memory and tool design provide redundancy, enabling tasks
to be completed via multiple pathways, effectively bypassing
potentially flawed memory entries or tools. More inference
examples are provided in Appendix.
2.3. A Two-Agent Framework for Generating Em-
bodied Interactions
Collecting synthetic data for training foundation models, par-
ticularly embodied foundation models, has recently gained
considerable interest [28]. We explore a novel approach with
Embodied VideoAgent to gather synthetic embodied user-
assistant interaction data. This dataset comprises episodes
where a user interacts with an assistant within embodied envi-
ronments. Drawing inspiration from prior multi-LLM-agent
research [10], we use one LLM to emulate the user’s role,
while Embodied VideoAgent assumes the assistant’s role,
exploring the environment and fulfilling the user’s diverse
requests. An overview of this framework is shown in Fig-
ure 5. The user is prompted to propose varied and engaging
tasks based on its limited scene graph knowledge—achieved
by randomly trimming the full scene graph to stimulate cu-
riosity—and the assistant’s feedback. Detailed prompting
strategies are provided in Appendix.
3. Capabilities and Analysis
We evaluate Embodied VideoAgent on various dynamic and
embodied scene understanding tasks, including 3D object
localization in dynamic scenes using Ego4D-VQ3D (Sec-
tion 3.1), embodied question answering with OpenEQA (Sec-
tion 3.2.2), and general question answering over embodied
interactions on EnvQA (Section 3.2.3). The performances
are compared against state-of-the-art multimodal LLMs and
multimodal agents. In Section 3.3, we demonstrate its ap-
plication to two embodied AI tasks: generating embodied
interactions and perception for robot manipulation.
3.1. 3D Object Localization
We test Embodied VideoAgent on Ego4D Visual Queries
3D localization (VQ3D)[11]. Given an egocentric video
Figure 5. An overview of our synthetic embodied data collection
framework. An LLM plays the user role and is prompted to propose
engaging tasks based on a partial scene graph and the user’s feed-
back, while the user, effectively a Embodied VideoAgent, explores
the scene and fulfills the user’s requests.
depicting how a human subject interacts with a dynamic
environment, an image of a target object, and a query frame,
the task of VQ3D is to output the position of the target object
at the time stamp of the query frame.
3.1.1. Settings
Baselines. Two types of Embodied VideoAgent are tested:
1) retrieving the object with the highest visual score with the
target image from the up-to-date object memory, denoted as
Embodied VideoAgent (image); 2) retrieving the object with
the same category as the target object, referred as Embodied
VideoAgent (text). EgoLoc[31], Ego4D*[31], Embodied
VideoAgent (text), and Embodied VideoAgent (image) are
all based on the same precomputed camera poses and depth
images provided by EgoLoc[31], the 1st place on VQ3D
challenge. Ego4D[11] denotes the baseline method in the
benchmark paper.
Metrics. Among the metrics, Succ% is the most important
one that evaluates the success rate on all queries. Succ*
(success rate on the answered queries only) and L2 (the
average distance error) are all computed on the queries where
the target object is detected by the method. The proportion
of the answered queries to all queries is denoted as QwP%.
3.1.2. Results on VQ3D
Table 1 shows the results on VQ3D validation set. Overall,
Embodied VideoAgent (image) achieves the highest success
rate, surpassing EgoLoc by 5%. We made the following
observations:
Open-vocabulary object detector provides more candi-
date objects. The higher QwP% rate of Embodied VideoA-
gent (image): 92.07% compared to that of EgoLoc, indicat-
ing the strong and robust performance of open-vocabulary
object detection of Embodied VideoAgent empowered by
YoloWorld[4]. The better Succ*% and L2 of EgoLoc can
be attributed to its high-confidence predictions since these
two metrics only evaluate the predicted queries. By contrast,
5

===PAGE 6===
Table 1. Results of 3D object localization within dynamic scenes
on the validation set of Ego4D-VQ3D[11].
Ego4D VQ3D
Method
Succ% ↑
Succ*% ↑
L2↓
QwP% ↑
EgoLoc
80.49
98.14
1.45
82.32
Ego4D*
73.78
91.45
2.05
80.49
Ego4D
1.22
30.77
5.98
1.83
E-VideoAgent(text)
53.05
94.57
2.00
56.10
E-VideoAgent(image)
85.37
92.72
1.86
92.07
Embodied VideoAgent (image) sacrifices little Succ*% and
L2 for more aggressive predictions on hard open-vocabulary
queries, which finally results in the best QwP% and Succ%.
Visual Similarity is crucial for Object re-ID in a dynamic
scene. By only considering text for object retrieval, Em-
bodied VideoAgent (text) has decent performance on VQ3D
compared to Ego4D baseline, though not being competitive
to Embodied VideoAgent (image). This can be attributed
to the in-door settings of Ego4D videos, where functional
objects (scissors, screwdrivers, etc) are usually clustered
within the distance error of a successful detection. Applying
visual-based object re-ID on object candidates boosts the
performance, indicated by the large margin between Embod-
ied VideoAgent (image) and Embodied VideoAgent (text),
illustrating the effectiveness of the visual similarity score for
object re-ID in dynamic scenes.
3.2. Embodied Question Answering
Given an embodied episode in a scene, Embodied Question
Answering requires the model to answer the question about
the scene and embodied activities, such as “what is the or-
ange thing on the shelf to the right”, “where did I leave my
remote controller”, etc. Embodied VideoAgent is tested on
OpenEQA[32] and EnvQA [8], two recent benchmarks on
open-ended embodied question answering.
3.2.1. Settings
Baselines.
We equip Embodied VideoAgent with the four
perception tools mentioned in Section 2.2. For
vqa
tool, we tested InternVL2-8B[2, 3] and GPT-4o, denoted
as Embodied VideoAgent (InternVL2-8B) and Embodied
VideoAgent (GPT-4o) respectively. Please note we com-
pare with zero-shot baselines only following prior practices.
On OpenEQA[32], the baseline methods include 1) Large
Video Language Models: Video-LLaVA[25] and LLaMA-
VID[24]; 2) multi-modal Agents: VideoAgent[7], GPT-4
w/LLaVA-1.5[32] (which leverages frame captions) and
GPT-4 w/CG[32] (which uses scene graph information). Em-
bodied VideoAgent is tested on a subset of the original dataset
due to cost issues, with the subset size being one-fifth of the
original dataset. The questions in the subset are randomly se-
lected. On EnvQA[8], we tested Embodied VideoAgent with
Video-LLaVA[25], LLaMA-VID[24] and VideoAgent[7].
We tested these methods on three types of questions of En-
Table 2. Results of embodied question answering on the EM-EQA
split of OpenEQA[32]. Some scores are borrowed from the original
benchmark paper.
OpenEQA
Method
ScanNet
HM3D
ALL
GPT-4 w/ LLaVA-1.5
45.4
40.0
43.6
GPT-4 w/ CG
37.8
34.0
36.5
Video-LLaVA
41.5
34.6
39.2
LLaMA-VID
33.4
34.0
33.6
OpenEQA Subset
Method
ScanNet
HM3D
ALL
Video-LLaVA
32.9
27.8
30.6
LLaMA-VID
31.2
28.0
29.4
VideoAgent
37.6
34.6
36.3
E-VideoAgent(InternVL2-8B)
39.7
43.0
41.2
E-VideoAgent(GPT-4o)
46.0
48.2
47.0
Table 3. Results of open-ended question answering over embodied
interactions on the test set of EnvQA [8].
EnvQA
Method
Events
Orders
States
Video-LLaVA
10.19
39.00
18.50
LLaMA-VID
9.98
54.00
5.50
VideoAgent
5.54
65.5
12.5
Embodied VideoAgent
25.91
68.00
35.50
vQA: States (e.g. "Where was the book moved?"), Events
(e.g. “what happened, after throwing soap bar and before
throwing soap bar to hit shower door?”), and Orders (e.g.
“filling pot with water or use up soap bottle, which happened
first”), with each type containing 200 questions.
3.2.2. Results on OpenEQA
Table 2 shows the results. It can be inferred that OpenEQA
Subset is harder than the full OpenEQA validation set from
the performance drops of Video-LLaVA and LLaMA-VID.
On the hard subset, the two variants of Embodied VideoA-
gent both achieve good performances. Specifically, Embod-
ied VideoAgent (GPT-4o) obtained 46.0% on ScanNet and
48.2% on HM3D, surpassing Video-LLaVA by 13.1% and
20.4% on the ScanNet and HM3D respectively.
Temporal localization +
vqa tool solves embodied
questions better than scene graph.
The performance
gaps between GPT4-w/LLaVA-1.5 and GPT-4 w/CG on the
full OpenEQA indicate that LLM can better utilize frame
captions for question answering other than scene graphs,
which is validated by the better performance of Embodied
VideoAgent (+16.4% over Video-LLaVA on subset) over
GPT-4 w/CG (+4.4% over Video-LLaVA on full set). Em-
bodied VideoAgent does not explicitly construct a complex
scene graph during memory construction. Instead, for re-
6

===PAGE 7===
Figure 6. An episode of generated embodied user-assistant interaction. The episode is produced by the framework mentioned in Section 2.3,
where an LLM plays the user and Embodied VideoAgent is the assistant. The episode comprises various embodied problem-solving that
requires precise memory of the scene objects and tool usage. More example episodes can be found in Appendix.
Figure 7. Our persistent object memory enables effective real-world robotic manipulation. Using Embodied VideoAgent for perception, the
robot is tasked to pick up an apple, which soon becomes occluded by a box. Leveraging its memory, the robot retrieves the apple’s position,
moves the box aside, and successfully completes the task.
lational questions about two objects during the inference,
Embodied VideoAgent will use temporal localization to re-
trieve the frame that contains both the objects and use VLM
to answer the relational questions about them. We found
that the strong performance of Embodied VideoAgent mainly
attributed to the precise frame localization using consistent
object memory and history buffer.
Agentic systems outperforms End-to-End VLMs.
On
the OpenEQA subset, agentic methods Embodied VideoA-
gent (InternVL2-8B), Embodied VideoAgent (GPT-4o) and
VideoAgent all achieve better results than end-to-end models
Video-LLaVA and LLaMA-VID due to their multi-step in-
7

===PAGE 8===
formation retrieval and reasoning abilities. Besides, the per-
formance gains of Embodied VideoAgent over VideoAgent
suggest that a consistent object memory with comprehensive
features (object feature, object context feature, and frame
feature) will leads to better temporal and spatial localization,
which finally leads to accurate question answering.
3.2.3. Results on EnvQA
The results on EnvQA are shown in Table 3. Embodied
VideoAgent achieves a significant performance gain com-
pared to its three counterparts.
VLM-based memory update plays a key role in event
understanding. The crucial component for accurately an-
swering questions about Events and Orders is the action
buffer presented in Embodied VideoAgent, which associates
each action with its target object. The difficulty in under-
standing events in EnvQA is the absence of “hand” in the
simulated environment, which makes the action annotator
less effective. With the help of VLM-based memory update,
Embodied VideoAgent, by contrast, can better identify the
critical target objects in the dynamic scenes, resulting in
better performance.
Object relation detection helps to solve States question.
The States questions involve recalling the final position of an
object. By automatic object relation detection using 3D bbox,
the final receptacle that holds the object can be retrieved from
the RO field, therefore enhancing the ability of Embodied
VideoAgent to answer States questions.
3.3. More Applications in Embodied AI Tasks
We further explore the potential of Embodied VideoAgent
across various embodied AI tasks. In Figure 6, we illus-
trate an episode of user-assistant interaction generated by
the two-agent framework described in Section 2.3, all within
the AI-Habitat simulator [42]. As shown, to enable such in-
teractions, the assistant (powered by Embodied VideoAgent)
requires an accurate and comprehensive understanding of
scene objects it has previously encountered, such as “my
desk with a laptop on it.” Embodied VideoAgent effectively
fulfills diverse requests from the LLM user by seamlessly
integrating memory query tools with embodied action primi-
tives. Additional examples of these embodied interactions
are provided in Appendix. In Figure 7, we showcase Embod-
ied VideoAgent ’s application in robotic perception, where a
Franka robot uses it to build persistent memory in a dynamic
manipulation scene. In this task, the robot is instructed to
pick up an apple. However, the apple later becomes hidden
behind a box, illustrating the dynamic nature of the scene.
Leveraging persistent object memory, the robot successfully
recalls the apple’s location despite the obstruction and com-
pletes the task by first moving the box aside, demonstrating
the effectiveness of scene memory.
4. Related Works
Video and Dynamic Scene Understanding.
Most ex-
isting 3D scene understanding methods struggle with dy-
namic scenes due to limitations in input modalities, as both
2D images and 3D point clouds inherently capture static
information [12, 18]. To remedy this, dynamic scene under-
standing is introduced to facilitate this [30, 33, 57, 60, 61].
Unlike canonical scene understanding, which primarily fo-
cuses on identifying static objects and entities, dynamic
scene understanding centers on how actions and activities
affect these elements within a scene. Research in this area
typically uses video as the primary modality due to its natu-
ral ability to capture dynamic changes and its relative ease
of acquisition [29, 32]. Moreover, dynamic scene under-
standing often involves long-form video [7, 50], adding lay-
ers of complexity. Recent approaches explore egocentric
video [5, 11, 33] and large-scale multimodal training [24–
26, 37, 50]. Despite these advancements, existing models
struggle with performance issues due to the inherent com-
plexity of the task [11, 32, 61] or face high computational
demands [47, 48], limiting their applicability for embodied
agents and robotic systems.
Multimodal Agents for Perception. Recent advancements
in large language models (LLMs) have showcased impres-
sive reasoning and problem-solving abilities across diverse
domains [6, 35, 47, 47], leading to their application in per-
ception tasks [7, 9, 14, 45, 59]. This approach leverages
LLMs to decompose complex perception tasks (such as vi-
sual question answering) into smaller, manageable subtasks.
These subtasks are then completed by multiple specialized
tool models (often end-to-end models), and the outputs are
aggregated by the LLM into a cohesive response [7, 9, 14].
Known as multimodal agents, these systems have shown
promising results in 2D image comprehension [9], video
analysis [7, 59], and 3D scene understanding [16]. Com-
pared to traditional end-to-end methods, agent-based percep-
tion offers reduced training and inference costs, improved
explainability through explicit chain-of-thought reasoning,
and, in some cases, faster inference rates (e.g., for long-form
video understanding). However, current methods still face
challenges with more complex tasks, such as dynamic scene
understanding, likely due to limitations in the flexibility and
precision of memory design.
5. Conclusions
We have presented Embodied VideoAgent, a memory-
augmented multimodal tool-use agent that tackles the chal-
lenging dynamic scene understanding tasks with a novel
persistent object memory and an automatic memory update
method based on VLMs. Compared to end-to-end mul-
timodal LLMs and tool-use agent counterparts, the mem-
ory architecture of Embodied VideoAgent enables precise,
8

===PAGE 9===
comprehensive scene understanding by integrating egocen-
tric observations with embodied sensory inputs (e.g., depth
maps, camera poses). This design is resilient to ongoing
changes in the scene caused by various actions and activities
performed by embodied agents, making it particularly well-
suited for embodied AI tasks. The effectiveness of Embodied
VideoAgent has been validated through the promising results
on various embodied scene understanding tasks including
Ego4D-VQ3D, OpenEQA, and EnvQA. Future directions
may involve deploying robots in more challenging environ-
ments, such as production sites and outdoor settings.
References
[1] Shaofei Cai, Zihao Wang, Kewei Lian, Zhancun Mu, Xiaojian
Ma, Anji Liu, and Yitao Liang. Rocket-1: Master open-world
interaction with visual-temporal context prompting. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.17856, 2024. 4
[2] Zhe Chen, Weiyun Wang, Hao Tian, Shenglong Ye, Zhangwei
Gao, Erfei Cui, Wenwen Tong, Kongzhi Hu, Jiapeng Luo,
Zheng Ma, et al. How far are we to gpt-4v? closing the gap
to commercial multimodal models with open-source suites.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16821, 2024. 6
[3] Zhe Chen, Jiannan Wu, Wenhai Wang, Weijie Su, Guo Chen,
Sen Xing, Muyan Zhong, Qinglong Zhang, Xizhou Zhu,
Lewei Lu, et al. Internvl: Scaling up vision foundation models
and aligning for generic visual-linguistic tasks. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, pages 24185–24198, 2024. 6
[4] Tianheng Cheng, Lin Song, Yixiao Ge, Wenyu Liu, Xing-
gang Wang, and Ying Shan. Yolo-world: Real-time open-
vocabulary object detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 16901–16911, 2024. 3, 5, 12
[5] Dima Damen, Hazel Doughty, Giovanni Maria Farinella, An-
tonino Furnari, Jian Ma, Evangelos Kazakos, Davide Molti-
santi, Jonathan Munro, Toby Perrett, Will Price, and Michael
Wray. Rescaling egocentric vision: Collection, pipeline and
challenges for epic-kitchens-100. International Journal of
Computer Vision (IJCV), 130:33–55, 2022. 1, 8
[6] Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Ab-
hishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil
Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, et al. The
llama 3 herd of models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783,
2024. 8
[7] Yue Fan, Xiaojian Ma, Rujie Wu, Yuntao Du, Jiaqi Li, Zhi
Gao, and Qing Li. Videoagent: A memory-augmented multi-
modal agent for video understanding. In European Confer-
ence on Computer Vision, pages 75–92. Springer, 2025. 1, 2,
3, 6, 8, 12
[8] Difei Gao, Ruiping Wang, Ziyi Bai, and Xilin Chen. Env-qa:
A video question answering benchmark for comprehensive
understanding of dynamic environments. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,
pages 1675–1685, 2021. 2, 6
[9] Zhi Gao, Yuntao Du, Xintong Zhang, Xiaojian Ma, Wenjuan
Han, Song-Chun Zhu, and Qing Li. Clova: A closed-loop
visual assistant with tool usage and update. CVPR, 2023. 2, 8
[10] Ran Gong, Qiuyuan Huang, Xiaojian Ma, Hoi Vo, Zane Du-
rante, Yusuke Noda, Zilong Zheng, Song-Chun Zhu, Demetri
Terzopoulos, Li Fei-Fei, et al. Mindagent: Emergent gaming
interaction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.09971, 2023. 2, 5
[11] Kristen Grauman, Andrew Westbury, Eugene Byrne, Zachary
Chavis, Antonino Furnari, Rohit Girdhar, Jackson Hamburger,
Hao Jiang, Miao Liu, Xingyu Liu, et al. Ego4d: Around the
world in 3,000 hours of egocentric video. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 18995–19012, 2022. 1, 2, 5, 6, 8
[12] Qiao Gu, Ali Kuwajerwala, Sacha Morin, Krishna Murthy
Jatavallabhula, Bipasha Sen, Aditya Agarwal, Corban Rivera,
William Paul, Kirsty Ellis, Rama Chellappa, et al. Concept-
graphs: Open-vocabulary 3d scene graphs for perception and
planning. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), pages 5021–5028. IEEE, 2024. 1, 8
[13] Jun Guo, Xiaojian Ma, Yue Fan, Huaping Liu, and Qing Li.
Semantic gaussians: Open-vocabulary scene understanding
with 3d gaussian splatting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.15624,
2024. 3
[14] Tanmay Gupta and Aniruddha Kembhavi. Visual program-
ming: Compositional visual reasoning without training. In
CVPR, 2023. 2, 8
[15] Tengda Han, Weidi Xie, and Andrew Zisserman. Temporal
alignment networks for long-term video. In CVPR, 2022. 1
[16] Haifeng Huang, Yilun Chen, Zehan Wang, Rongjie Huang,
Runsen Xu, Tai Wang, Luping Liu, Xize Cheng, Yang Zhao,
Jiangmiao Pang, et al. Chat-scene: Bridging 3d scene and
large language models with object identifiers. In The Thirty-
eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2024. 8
[17] Jiangyong Huang, Silong Yong, Xiaojian Ma, Xiongkun
Linghu, Puhao Li, Yan Wang, Qing Li, Song-Chun Zhu, Baox-
iong Jia, and Siyuan Huang. An embodied generalist agent in
3d world. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.12871, 2023. 1, 3
[18] Krishna Murthy Jatavallabhula, Alihusein Kuwajerwala, Qiao
Gu, Mohd Omama, Tao Chen, Alaa Maalouf, Shuang Li,
Ganesh Iyer, Soroush Saryazdi, Nikhil Keetha, et al. Con-
ceptfusion: Open-set multimodal 3d mapping. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.07241, 2023. 1, 8
[19] Baoxiong Jia, Yixin Chen, Siyuan Huang, Yixin Zhu, and
Song-chun Zhu. Lemma: A multi-view dataset for le arning
m ulti-agent m ulti-task a ctivities. In ECCV, 2020. 1
[20] Baoxiong Jia, Ting Lei, Song-Chun Zhu, and Siyuan Huang.
Egotaskqa: Understanding human tasks in egocentric videos.
NeurIPS, 2022. 1
[21] Baoxiong Jia, Yixin Chen, Huangyue Yu, Yan Wang, Xuesong
Niu, Tengyu Liu, Qing Li, and Siyuan Huang. Sceneverse:
Scaling 3d vision-language learning for grounded scene un-
derstanding. In European Conference on Computer Vision,
pages 289–310. Springer, 2025. 3
[22] Mukul Khanna, Yongsen Mao, Hanxiao Jiang, Sanjay Haresh,
Brennan Shacklett, Dhruv Batra, Alexander Clegg, Eric Un-
dersander, Angel X Chang, and Manolis Savva.
Habitat
synthetic scenes dataset (hssd-200): An analysis of 3d scene
9

===PAGE 10===
scale and realism tradeoffs for objectgoal navigation. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 16384–16393, 2024. 21
[23] Bruno Korbar, Yongqin Xian, Alessio Tonioni, Andrew Zis-
serman, and Federico Tombari.
Text-conditioned resam-
pler for long form video understanding.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.11897, 2023. 1
[24] Yanwei Li, Chengyao Wang, and Jiaya Jia. Llama-vid: An im-
age is worth 2 tokens in large language models. In European
Conference on Computer Vision, pages 323–340. Springer,
2025. 1, 6, 8
[25] Bin Lin, Yang Ye, Bin Zhu, Jiaxi Cui, Munan Ning, Peng
Jin, and Li Yuan. Video-llava: Learning united visual rep-
resentation by alignment before projection. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.10122, 2023. 1, 6
[26] Kevin Qinghong Lin, Jinpeng Wang, Mattia Soldan, Michael
Wray, Rui Yan, Eric Z Xu, Difei Gao, Rong-Cheng Tu, Wen-
zhe Zhao, Weijie Kong, et al. Egocentric video-language
pretraining. Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems, 35:7575–7586, 2022. 1, 8
[27] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee.
Visual instruction tuning. NeurIPS, 2024. 1
[28] Ruibo Liu, Jerry Wei, Fangyu Liu, Chenglei Si, Yanzhe
Zhang, Jinmeng Rao, Steven Zheng, Daiyi Peng, Diyi Yang,
Denny Zhou, et al. Best practices and lessons learned on
synthetic data. In First Conference on Language Modeling,
2024. 5
[29] Xiaojian Ma, Silong Yong, Zilong Zheng, Qing Li, Yitao
Liang, Song-Chun Zhu, and Siyuan Huang. Sqa3d: Situated
question answering in 3d scenes. In ICLR, 2023. 8
[30] Muhammad Maaz, Hanoona Rasheed, Salman Khan, and
Fahad Shahbaz Khan. Video-chatgpt: Towards detailed video
understanding via large vision and language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2306.05424, 2023. 8
[31] Jinjie Mai, Abdullah Hamdi, Silvio Giancola, Chen Zhao, and
Bernard Ghanem. Egoloc: Revisiting 3d object localization
from egocentric videos with visual queries. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision,
pages 45–57, 2023. 2, 5
[32] Arjun Majumdar, Anurag Ajay, Xiaohan Zhang, Pranav Putta,
Sriram Yenamandra, Mikael Henaff, Sneha Silwal, Paul Mc-
vay, Oleksandr Maksymets, Sergio Arnaud, et al. Openeqa:
Embodied question answering in the era of foundation models.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 16488–16498, 2024.
2, 6, 8
[33] Karttikeya Mangalam, Raiymbek Akshulakov, and Jitendra
Malik. Egoschema: A diagnostic benchmark for very long-
form video language understanding. NeurIPS, 2024. 1, 8
[34] Antoine Miech, Dimitri Zhukov, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac,
Makarand Tapaswi, Ivan Laptev, and Josef Sivic. Howto100m:
Learning a text-video embedding by watching hundred mil-
lion narrated video clips. In ICCV, 2019. 1
[35] OpenAI.
Gpt-4 technical report.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.08774, 2023. 8
[36] Maxime Oquab, Timothée Darcet, Théo Moutakanni, Huy Vo,
Marc Szafraniec, Vasil Khalidov, Pierre Fernandez, Daniel
Haziza, Francisco Massa, Alaaeldin El-Nouby, et al. Dinov2:
Learning robust visual features without supervision. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2304.07193, 2023. 12
[37] Shraman Pramanick, Yale Song, Sayan Nag, Kevin Qinghong
Lin, Hardik Shah, Mike Zheng Shou, Rama Chellappa, and
Pengchuan Zhang. Egovlpv2: Egocentric video-language
pre-training with fusion in the backbone. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision,
pages 5285–5297, 2023. 1, 8
[38] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning
transferable visual models from natural language supervision.
2021. 12
[39] Nikhila Ravi, Valentin Gabeur, Yuan-Ting Hu, Ronghang Hu,
Chaitanya Ryali, Tengyu Ma, Haitham Khedr, Roman Rädle,
Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, et al. Sam 2: Segment any-
thing in images and videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.00714,
2024. 12
[40] Corban Rivera, Grayson Byrd, William Paul, Tyler Feldman,
Meghan Booker, Emma Holmes, David Handelman, Bethany
Kemp, Andrew Badger, Aurora Schmidt, et al. Concepta-
gent: Llm-driven precondition grounding and tree search
for robust task planning and execution.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.06108, 2024. 1
[41] Mehdi SM Sajjadi, Henning Meyer, Etienne Pot, Urs
Bergmann, Klaus Greff, Noha Radwan, Suhani Vora, Mario
Luˇci´c, Daniel Duckworth, Alexey Dosovitskiy, et al. Scene
representation transformer: Geometry-free novel view synthe-
sis through set-latent scene representations. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 6229–6238, 2022. 1
[42] Manolis Savva, Abhishek Kadian, Oleksandr Maksymets,
Yili Zhao, Erik Wijmans, Bhavana Jain, Julian Straub, Jia Liu,
Vladlen Koltun, Jitendra Malik, et al. Habitat: A platform for
embodied ai research. In ICCV, 2019. 8, 21
[43] Johannes
Lutz
Schönberger
and
Jan-Michael
Frahm.
Structure-from-motion revisited. In Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2016. 5
[44] Vincent Sitzmann, Michael Zollhöfer, and Gordon Wetzstein.
Scene representation networks: Continuous 3d-structure-
aware neural scene representations. Advances in Neural In-
formation Processing Systems, 32, 2019. 1
[45] Dídac Surís, Sachit Menon, and Carl Vondrick. Vipergpt:
Visual inference via python execution for reasoning. In ICCV,
2023. 2, 8
[46] Makarand Tapaswi, Yukun Zhu, Rainer Stiefelhagen, Anto-
nio Torralba, Raquel Urtasun, and Sanja Fidler. Movieqa:
Understanding stories in movies through question-answering.
In CVPR, 2016. 1
[47] Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Yonghui
Wu, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu Soricut, Johan
Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja Hauth, et al. Gemini: a
family of highly capable multimodal models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.11805, 2023. 1, 8
[48] Gemini Team, Petko Georgiev, Ving Ian Lei, Ryan Burnell,
Libin Bai, Anmol Gulati, Garrett Tanzer, Damien Vincent,
10

===PAGE 11===
Zhufeng Pan, Shibo Wang, et al. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking mul-
timodal understanding across millions of tokens of context.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05530, 2024. 1, 8
[49] Shuzhe Wang, Vincent Leroy, Yohann Cabon, Boris
Chidlovskii, and Jerome Revaud.
Dust3r: Geometric 3d
vision made easy. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages
20697–20709, 2024. 5, 15
[50] Yuxuan Wang, Yueqian Wang, Pengfei Wu, Jianxin Liang,
Dongyan Zhao, and Zilong Zheng. Lstp: Language-guided
spatial-temporal prompt learning for long-form video-text
understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.16050, 2024. 8
[51] Zihao Wang, Shaofei Cai, Anji Liu, Yonggang Jin, Jinbing
Hou, Bowei Zhang, Haowei Lin, Zhaofeng He, Zilong Zheng,
Yaodong Yang, et al. Jarvis-1: Open-world multi-task agents
with memory-augmented multimodal language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.05997, 2023. 1
[52] Zihao Wang, Shaofei Cai, Anji Liu, Xiaojian Ma, and Yitao
Liang. Describe, explain, plan and select: Interactive planning
with large language models enables open-world multi-task
agents. NeurIPS, 2023.
[53] Zihao Wang, Shaofei Cai, Zhancun Mu, Haowei Lin, Ceyao
Zhang, Xuejie Liu, Qing Li, Anji Liu, Xiaojian Ma, and
Yitao Liang. Omnijarvis: Unified vision-language-action
tokenization enables open-world instruction following agents.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.00114, 2024. 1
[54] Olivia Wiles, Joao Carreira, Iain Barr, Andrew Zisserman,
and Mateusz Malinowski. Compressed vision for efficient
video understanding. In ACCV, 2022. 1
[55] Chenfei Wu, Shengming Yin, Weizhen Qi, Xiaodong Wang,
Zecheng Tang, and Nan Duan. Visual chatgpt: Talking, draw-
ing and editing with visual foundation models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.04671, 2023. 2
[56] Chao-Yuan Wu and Philipp Krahenbuhl. Towards long-form
video understanding. In CVPR, 2021. 1
[57] Junbin Xiao, Xindi Shang, Angela Yao, and Tat-Seng Chua.
Next-qa: Next phase of question-answering to explaining
temporal actions. In CVPR, 2021. 8
[58] Jianwei Yang, Hao Zhang, Feng Li, Xueyan Zou, Chunyuan
Li, and Jianfeng Gao.
Set-of-mark prompting unleashes
extraordinary visual grounding in gpt-4v.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.11441, 2023. 4
[59] Zongxin Yang, Guikun Chen, Xiaodi Li, Wenguan Wang,
and Yi Yang. Doraemongpt: Toward understanding dynamic
scenes with large language models (exemplified as a video
agent). 2024. 8
[60] Hang Zhang, Xin Li, and Lidong Bing. Video-llama: An
instruction-tuned audio-visual language model for video un-
derstanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.02858, 2023. 8
[61] Yuanhan Zhang, Kaichen Zhang, Bo Li, Fanyi Pu, Christo-
pher Arif Setiadharma, Jingkang Yang, and Ziwei Liu.
Worldqa: Multimodal world knowledge in videos through
long-chain reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.03272, 2024.
8
[62] Haozhe Zhao, Zefan Cai, Shuzheng Si, Xiaojian Ma, Kaikai
An, Liang Chen, Zixuan Liu, Sheng Wang, Wenjuan Han,
and Baobao Chang. Mmicl: Empowering vision-language
model with multi-modal in-context learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.07915, 2023. 1
[63] Yue Zhao, Ishan Misra, Philipp Krähenbühl, and Rohit Gird-
har.
Learning video representations from large language
models. In CVPR, 2023. 14
[64] Ziyu Zhu, Xiaojian Ma, Yixin Chen, Zhidong Deng, Siyuan
Huang, and Qing Li. 3d-vista: Pre-trained transformer for 3d
vision and text alignment. In ICCV, 2023. 1, 3
[65] Ziyu Zhu, Zhuofan Zhang, Xiaojian Ma, Xuesong Niu, Yixin
Chen, Baoxiong Jia, Zhidong Deng, Siyuan Huang, and Qing
Li. Unifying 3d vision-language understanding via prompt-
able queries. In European Conference on Computer Vision,
pages 188–206. Springer, 2025. 1
11

===PAGE 12===
A. Fields of the Object Entry
An object in Persistent Object Memory has the following
fields:
• ID: The unique object ID in the memory, together with
the detected category. Our 3D object re-identification
algorithm can be found in Appendix C.
• STATE: The object state can be "open", "close", "in hand"
or "normal". It is updated by VLM, which will be dis-
cussed in Appendix D.
• Related Objects(RO): A list of objects that have "on",
"uphold", "in" and "contain" relations with the entry ob-
ject. The detections of These relations are based on 3D
bounding boxes. For example, Given the 3D bounding
boxes B1 and B2 of object O1 and O2 correspondingly, if
B1 has a higher altitude than B2, B1 has contact with B2
and B1 is inside the horizontal surface of B2, then O1 is
"on" O2 and O2 "upholds" O1.
• 3D Bbox: It is obtained by 2D-3D lifting and dynamically
updated by the moving average algorithm. Please refer to
Appendix B and Appendix C for more details.
• OBJ Feat: It is the CLIP feature of the object’s cropped
image. It is updated by the moving average algorithm.
Details are provided in Appendix C.
• CTX Feat: It is the CLIP feature of the frame where the
object is visible. It is updated by the moving average
algorithm. Please refer to Appendix C for details.
B. 2D-3D Lifting
In this paper, 2D-3D Lifting refers to getting the 3D bound-
ing boxes of the objects using 2D object detection bounding
boxes, camera poses, and depth images. Different from meth-
ods that use point clouds or voxels to represent 3D object
geometry, we found that representing object geometry as 3D
bounding boxes is enough for embodied perception. More
importantly, compared to point clouds or voxels, 3D bound-
ing boxes are more memory-efficient and can be maintained
and updated easily, which makes them a natural choice for
3D object perception in dynamic scenes.
To get the 3D bounding boxes of the objects, we first
use YoloWorld[4] detector to predict the 2D bounding boxes
of the objects. SAM-2[39] is then adopted to get the cor-
responding object masks for the detected objects given the
frame and the bounding boxes. For each object, we use its
2D object mask to get its depth pixels and transform them
into object surface points in the world coordinate system
using the camera intrinsic and extrinsic. We then filter out
the bad points (usually, the foreground and the background
pixels caused by imperfect segmentation mask prediction)
by simply sorting the object surface points by their distances
to the camera, and removing the first 10% and the last 10%
of the points to finally get the refined object surface points.
The object bounding boxes are then computed based on the
minimum and maximum values of the points’ coordinates.
C. Object Re-Identification in Dynamic Scenes
Accurate object re-identification (re-ID) in dynamic scenes
can better facilitate embodied perception, task planning, and
reasoning. Embodied VideoAgent utilizes both object vi-
sual features and object 3D bounding boxes for object re-
identification. The visual similarity score and the spatial
similarity score of an object pair are detailed as follows.
C.1. Visual Similarity Score
For a detected object on the 2D frame, we crop the object
image from the frame using its 2D bounding box and extract
the CLIP[38] and DINOv2[36] features of this image crop
as the object’s visual features. To calculate the visual simi-
larity of two objects, we use the following visual similarity
score[7]:
Visual(Oi, Oj) = 0.15 ∗CLIP(Oi, Oj) + 0.85 ∗DINOv2(Oi, Oj)
(1)
where Visual(Oi, Oj) denotes visual similarity of object Oi
and Oj, CLIP(·, ·) and DINOv2(·, ·) are the CLIP and
DINOv2 similarities proposed in [7].
Besides the CLIP feature of the cropped object image
(denoted as OBJ Feat in Figure 2), the CLIP feature of
the frame containing the object is also stored as the context
feature of the object (denoted as CTX Feat in Figure 2).
The context feature will not be used for object re-ID, but
it later enables retrieving objects by an open-vocabulary
environment description ("blue wall", "kitchen", etc) during
inference.
C.2. Spatial Similarity Scores
Given two objects O1 and O2 and their 3D bound-
ing boxes: [[xmin
1
, ymin
1
, zmin
1
], [xmax
1
, ymax
1
, zmax
1
]] and
[[xmin
2
, ymin
2
, zmin
2
], [xmax
2
, ymax
2
, zmax
2
]], their volumes
and the volume of their intersection can be easily computed
as:
V1 = (xmax
1
−xmin
1
)(ymax
1
−ymin
1
)(zmax
1
−zmin
1
),
V2 = (xmax
2
−xmin
2
)(ymax
2
−ymin
2
)(zmax
2
−zmin
2
),
xinter = min(xmax
1
, xmax
2
) −max(xmin
1
, xmin
2
),
yinter = min(ymax
1
, ymax
2
) −max(ymin
1
, ymin
2
),
zinter = min(zmax
1
, zmax
2
) −max(zmin
1
, zmin
2
),
Vinter = max(0, xinter) ∗max(0, yinter) ∗max(0, zinter),
Vunion = V 1 + V 2 −Vinter
where V1 and V2 are the volumes of O1 and O2, Vinter is
the volume of their intersection and Vunion is the volume of
their union. we use three scores to evaluate the similarity of
the two bounding boxes:
12

===PAGE 13===
Algorithm 1: Static Object Re-Identification.
Input: detected object Ok, static object list S = [S1, S2, ..., Sm]
Output: re-IDed object if Ok matches one of the static objects else Ok
1 for Si in [S1, S2, ...Sn] do
2
if Spatial_IoU(Ok, Si) > 0.2 or (Spatial_MaxIoS(Ok, Si) > 0.2 and Ok.category == Si.category) then
3
return True, Si
4 return False, Ok
Algorithm 2: Dynamic Object Re-Identification.
Input: detected object Ok, dynamic object list D = [D1, D2, ..., Dn]
Output: re-IDed object if Ok matches one of the dynamic objects else Ok
1 for Di in [D1, D2, ...Dn] do
2
if Spatial_Vol_Sim(Ok, Di) > 0.7 and Visual(Ok, Di) > 0.45 then
3
return True, Di
4 return False, Ok
Intersection over Union (IoU):
Spatial_IoU(Oi, Oj) = Vinter
Vunion
.
(2)
Maximum Ratio of Intersection over Subsets (MaxIoS):
Spatial_MaxIoS(Oi, Oj) = max(Vinter
V1
, Vinter
V2
).
(3)
Bounding Box Volume Similarity (Vol_Sim)
Spatial_Vol_Sim(Oi, Oj) = min(V1, V2)
max(V1, V2).
(4)
These three scores evaluate object spatial proximity from
three different perspectives:
• Spatial_IoU: When two bounding boxes have similar
volumes and have large intersection volume, Spatial_IoU
will approach its maximum value 1. It is a strong indi-
cator (when Spatial_IoU > 0.2) of two bounding boxes
referring to the same object.
• Spatial_MaxIoS: When two bounding boxes demonstrate
a strong containment relationship, Spatial_MaxIoS will
get closer to its maximum value 1. For example, given
that O1 and O2 are both detected as ’table’, O2 is
1
10
the volume of O1 and its bounding box is inside O1,
Spatial_MaxIoS will reach 1, while their Spatial_IoU is
only 0.1. It is used together with object categories to re-
identify partially observed objects due to occlusion. In the
above example, O2 is possibly a partial observation of O1
given that they have overlapping bounding boxes and the
same object category.
• Spatial_Vol_Sim: when two bounding boxes have simi-
lar volume, Spatial_Vol_Sim will have larger value. It is
used along with visual similarity scores to match dynamic
objects.
C.3. Recognizing Dynamic Objects
With the knowledge of both object visual features and 3D
bounding boxes, we can perform object re-identification
based on both visual similarity and spatial similarity. For
static objects, spatial similarity serves as a valuable metric
for object re-ID. However, for dynamic objects, object re-
ID should focus more on the visual similarity of the object
pairs, since the object positions are dynamically changing.
Therefore, before re-identifying the newly detected objects,
we should first classify the existing objects in the object
memory into static objects and dynamic objects.
The key idea of recognizing dynamic objects in the object
memory is straightforward: if an object is not where it should
be, then it must be moved by someone (becomes dynamic).
We first retrieve the objects from the object memory whose
3D bounding boxes can be directly viewed on the current
frame (achieved by world-to-camera transformation) with
no occlusion (achieved by validating the depth values of the
corresponding pixels). For each retrieved object, We then
compare the visual features of "where it should be" on the
current frame with its visual features in the object memory.
If the visual similarity score is below a threshold (0.45 in
our settings), then the object is not "where it should be" and
should be marked as "dynamic". By this method, before
performing object-reID on current detections, we split the
objects in the object memory into two sets: static objects S
and dynamic objects D.
C.4. Object Re-ID for Static and Dynamic Objects
Algorithm 1 and Algorithm 2 are the object re-ID methods
for static objects and dynamic objects correspondingly. Each
algorithm receives a newly detected object Ok with visual
features and its 3D bounding box, and a list of candidate
13

===PAGE 14===
Algorithm 3: Object Memory Update.
Input: current observations Obst = {RGBt, Deptht, Poset}, previous object memory Mt−1
O
Output: current object memory Mt
O
1 2DBoxes, categories = 2D_Detector(RGBt)
2 S, D = ObjectSplit(Mt−1
O , Obst)
//See Appendix C.3
3 for i in range(len(2DBoxes)) do
4
category = categories[i]
5
2DBox = 2DBoxes[i]
6
3DBox = 2D_3D_Lifting(2DBox, Obst) //See Appendix B
7
FeatCLIP = CLIP_Model(RGBt[2DBox])
8
FeatDINOv2 = DINOv2_Model(RGBt[2DBox])
9
Otmp = Object3D(category, 3DBox, FeatCLIP, FeatDINOv2)
10
sgn, OID = Static_Object_ReID(Otmp, S)
/first try to re-identify Otmp from static objects (Algorithm 1)
11
if sgn == True then
12
OID = Static_Object_Merge(Otmp, OID)
13
else
14
sgn, OID = Dynamic_Object_ReID(Otmp, D)
//try to re-identify Otmp from dynamic objects (Algorithm 2)
15
if sgn == True then
16
OID = Dynamic_Object_Merge(Otmp, OID)
17
move OID from D to S
18
else
19
add Otmp to S
//Otmp is a brand new object
20 Mt
O = S ∪D
21 Mt
O = Related_Object_Update(Mt
O)
22 Mt
O = VLM_Update(Mt
O, RGBt)
23 return Mt
O
objects (static object list or dynamic object list). They both
return whether the object Ok can be successfully identified
and the object ID of the matched object in the candidate list.
If Ok is re-identified, it is merged into the matched object
by performing a moving average on the fields of the 3D
bounding box and visual features. Specifically, to merge the
two objects matched by static object re-ID, the window size
of the moving average is set to 10, leading to a mild change
in object visual features and spatial occupation; for dynamic
object merging, we set the window size to 2, allowing rapid
change of visual features and bounding boxes due to object
movement.
Algorithm 3 presents an overview of object memory up-
date, including 3D object detection and re-ID. The main
idea is to first divide the objects in Mt−1
O
into static ones S
and dynamic ones D, and try to match the newly detected
objects to these two kinds of objects through Algorithm 1
and Algorithm 2 respectively. If successfully matched, the
newly detected objects will be merged with the matched
objects in the object memory using the moving average as
mentioned, otherwise, it will be viewed as a brand new ob-
ject and added to the object memory. Finally, VLM-based
Memory update will be performed on Mt
O, which will be
discussed in Appendix D.
D. VLM-based Memory Update
When Embodied VideoAgent serves as an observer of an
egocentric video, Embodied VideoAgent needs to predict
the actions of the camera wearer in the video and associate
the object IDs in the object memory with the subjects of
the actions. We use LaViLa[63] to annotate the action of
the camera wearer every two seconds. For each action an-
notation, we first prompt an LLM (GPT-4o) to extract the
objects in the annotation (e.g. "bottle" and fridge" given
the annotation "#C C picks the bottle from the fridge") and
select candidate objects detected at that time according to
their categories for matching. We then perform VLM-based
object association illustrated in Figure 4, and save the actions
to Action Buffer. Finally, we query the state change of the
matched objects and update the "STATE" field of the ob-
ject entries. In this paper, objects have one of the following
states: "open", "close", "in hand" and "normal".
When Embodied VideoAgent is equipped with embodied
actions, the procedure of VLM-based object association is
14

===PAGE 15===
Table 4. Results of Embodied VideoAgent under noisy poses.
OpenEQA Subset
Method
ScanNet
HM3D
ALL
Video-LLaVA
32.9
27.8
30.6
LLaMA-VID
31.2
28.0
29.4
VideoAgent
37.6
34.6
36.3
E-VideoAgent(GT poses)
39.7
43.0
41.2
E-VideoAgent(noisy poses)
38.2
42.2
40.0
omitted since Embodied VideoAgent serves as an active plan-
ner with the knowledge of the object IDs of its target objects
or receptacles. In this case, VLM serves as an action valida-
tor that judges whether an action is successfully performed
and updates the "STATE" field of the target objects.
E. Results under Noisy Camera Poses
We conduct the ablation study of the influence of the noisy
camera poses.
On OpenEQA benchmark, We provide
Embodied VideoAgent (InternVL-2) with 1) the accurate
camera poses provided in habitat simulator, denoted as E-
VideoAgent(GT poses); 2) the estimated camera poses and
depths via DUSt3R[49], denoted as E-VideoAgent(noisy
poses). Results in Table 4 show that Embodied VideoAgent
can also handle perception tasks well based on the noisy
poses, suffering little performance drops when using the
estimated camera poses and depths. This suggests further
applications of Embodied VideoAgent on RGB videos only,
with the camera poses and depths being estimated by cutting-
edge scene reconstruction methods.
F. Embodied Perception
For embodied perception, we equip Embodied VideoAgent
with the following tools:
•
query_db: Given a query, this tool will return the can-
didate object entries from Persistent Object Memory. It is
a combination of code-based retrieval (writing a piece of
MySQL code to query the database) and similarity-based
retrieval. For similarity-based retrieval,
query_db sup-
ports retrieve_objects_by_appearance (based on
text-image similarities between the query text and the
OBJ Feats) and retrieve_objects_by_environment
(based on text-image similarities between the query text
and the CTX Feats).
•
temporal_loc: Return the top-5 frame IDs that satisfy
the description (e.g. when I walk in the front door). It is
achieved by the text-image similarity between the input
description and the frame features stored in the temporal
memory MT .
•
spatial_loc: Return the top-3 3D positions that sat-
isfy the description (e.g. bedroom). It is achieved by
calculating the center positions of the top-3 object spatial
clusters where objects have strong CTX feat similarities to
the input text description. This is only used for embodied
navigation.
•
vqa: Given an image (can be a video frame, a cropped
object image, or a frame plotted with a 3D bounding box
referring to a specific object), this tool will describe the
image and then answer the question.
We use the following prompt for perception tasks, with
{tools} in the prompt being the above tools. We choose GPT-
4o as the LLM agent and InternVL2 as the VLM for visual
question answering.
You are tasked with answering a question about a
scene. There is a SQL database that contains the
following tables:
TABLE Objects(
object_id INT,
category VARCHAR(255),
volume FLOAT,
PRIMARY KEY (object_id)
)
TABLE Objects_Frames(
object_id INT,
frame_id INT
)
The ’Objects’ table catalogues the objects detected
in the scene with their categories and volumes.
The categories are from {categories_list}.
The
’Objects_Frames’ table records the appearing
objects in the frames.
You have access to the following tools:
{tools}
ATTENTION:
1. Use double quotes for all string arguments when
using tools, avoiding any single quotes. If the tool
has two arguments, format the output within brack-
ets, like this: ("What is the color of the object in the
image?", 16).
2. Prioritize using retrieve_objects_by_appearance,
retrieve_objects_by_environment,
and
frame_localization for object and frame local-
ization, rather than query_database.
3.
Once the relevant frames are located, use
frame_VQA to ask questions about these frames.
4. For "where" questions, interpret them as spatial
location queries, not as requests to identify specific
frames. Use frame_VQA to provide these answers.
5. If the information is insufficient for a precise
response, generate a response based on the available
15

===PAGE 16===
data.
Use the following format:
Question: the input question you must answer
Thought: you should always think about what to do
Action:
the action to take, should be one of
[{tool_names}]
Action Input: the input to the action
Observation:
the result of the action...
(this
Thought/Action/Action Input/Observation can re-
peat N times)
Thought: I now know the final answer
Final Answer: the answer to the original input
question
Begin!
Question: {input}
Thought: {agent_scratchpad}
16

===PAGE 17===
F.1. Example 1
• Question: "What color are the blinds?"
• Ground-Truth Answer: "White"
• Predicted Answer: "The blinds are white."
In the following Chain Of Thought (CoT), Embodied VideoAgent first successfully locates the frames containing the target
object "blinds" by "frame_localization" as shown in Figure 8. Then, Embodied VideoAgent calls the VQA module (InternVL2)
to first describe the located frame and then answer the question based on this frame, and finally gets the correct answer: "The
blinds are white".
Entering new AgentExecutor chain...
Thought: To determine the color of the blinds, I need to locate frames that might contain blinds and then analyze
those frames.
Action: frame_localization
Action Input: "blinds"
Result: The most relevant frame indices are [190, 200, 210, 180, 240]
Thought: I have identified the frames that likely contain blinds. Now, I will use frame_VQA to determine the color of
the blinds in these frames.
Action: frame_VQA
Action Input: ("What is the color of the blinds?", 190)
Result: Description: The image shows an indoor scene featuring a window with partially open horizontal blinds.
Below the window is a heater or radiator, and part of a stove is visible on the left side. Outside the window, some
greenery can be seen.
Answer to the question: The blinds are white.
Thought: I now know the final answer.
Final Answer: The blinds are white.
Finished chain.
Figure 8. Frame No.190 that contains blinds are successfully located by Embodied VideoAgent in Section F.1.
17

===PAGE 18===
F.2. Example 2
• Question: "How many cups does the Mr coffee make?"
• Ground-Truth Answer: "12"
• Predicted Answer: "The Mr. Coffee machine makes 12 cups"
To answer this question, Embodied VideoAgent uses temporal localization to locate the frame containing the coffee machine as
illustrated in Figure 9. Then, it queries InternVL2 for a detailed description of this coffee machine. InternVL2 successfully
identifies the words on the box and finally answers that Mr. Coffee is capable of making 12 cups. The CoT for the inference is
provided as follows.
Entering new AgentExecutor chain...
Thought: To answer the question about how many cups the Mr. Coffee makes, I need to locate frames that might show
the Mr. Coffee machine and then analyze those frames to determine its capacity.
Action: frame_localization
Action Input: "Mr. Coffee machine"
Result: The most relevant frame indices are [270, 280, 260, 250, 290]
Thought: I have identified the frames that likely contain the Mr. Coffee machine. I will now use the frame_VQA tool
to analyze these frames and determine the capacity of the Mr. Coffee machine.
Action: frame_VQA
Action Input: ("How many cups does the Mr. Coffee make?", 270)
Result: Description: The image shows a kitchen section with multiple shelves.
- On the topmost shelf, there is a white box labeled “Hamilton Beach” with visible text indicating that it is related to a
kitchen appliance, and a photo of the appliance is shown on the box. This section includes other miscellaneous items.
- The middle shelf contains a big brown box labeled “Mr. Coffee.” The box features a picture of a coffee maker.
- In the bottom shelf, there are two colorful sponges – one red and one green – along with various other items that can’t
be clearly identified.
This portion of the room appears to be organized and neatly arranged, with items stored in an accessible manner.
Answer to the question: Based on the label visible in the image, the Mr. Coffee maker is capable of making 12 cups.
Thought: I have determined the capacity of the Mr. Coffee machine from the frame description.
Final Answer: The Mr. Coffee machine makes 12 cups.
Finished chain.
Figure 9. In Section F.2, The frame depicting the coffee machine named "Mr. Coffee" is successfully retrieved by frame_localization.
18

===PAGE 19===
F.3. Example 3
• Question: "Is there anything I can pour my soda into?"
• Ground-Truth Answer: "Yes, there is a cup to the left of the desk."
• Predicted Answer: "Yes, there is a cup and a bottle in the scene that you can pour your soda into."
This question is about functional reasoning. Embodied VideoAgent first uses retrieve_objects_by_appearance to retrieve the
objects that are most visually relevant to the phrase "cup" from the object memory. The captions of these objects are also
returned by this tool via VLM captioning on the frames containing these objects, with 3D bounding boxes being the visual
prompts, as shown in Figure 10. Then based on the retrieved objects, Embodied VideoAgent performs object_VQA, which
answers questions based on the images in Figure 10. By examining object ID 2 and object ID 454, Embodied VideoAgent
becomes certain that there exists a container that the user can pour soda into. The CoT is provided as follows.
Entering new AgentExecutor chain...
Thought: To determine if there is anything in the scene that can be used to pour soda into, I should look for objects
that are typically used as containers for liquids. Common objects for this purpose include cups, bottles, and containers.
I will start by retrieving objects that match these categories.
Action: retrieve_objects_by_appearance
Action Input: "cup"
Result: The objects that satisfy ’cup’ are 2: ’The object in the bounding box is a green cup or mug located on the
left side of the table.’, 454: ’The object in the bounding box is a bottle, specifically labeled "454 bottle". There is a
green box around the highlighted area, and the object appears to have a label with green and black colors.’, 1748: ’The
object in the bounding box is a rectangular, black desk organizer positioned next to a black desk lamp on the desk. The
organizer has compartments filled with pens, pencils, markers, and other office supplies.’, 9: ’The object within the
bounding box in the image is labeled as a "water bottle."’
Thought: I have found some objects that could potentially be used to pour soda into, such as a cup and a bottle. I will
now verify if these objects are suitable for pouring soda by asking specific questions about them.
Action: object_VQA
Action Input: ("Is this object suitable for pouring soda into?", 2)
Result: Description: The object in the bounding box is a cup.
Answer to the question: Although the object is not explicitly a cup, it resembles a cup and is likely suitable for pouring
soda into.
Thought: The object with ID 2 resembles a cup and is likely suitable for pouring soda into. I will now check the other
objects to see if they are also suitable.
Action: object_VQA
Action Input: ("Is this object suitable for pouring soda into?", 454)
Result: Description: The object in the bounding box is a beverage can.
Answer to the question: Yes, the object in question is suitable for pouring soda into, as it is shown as a bottle.
Thought: The object with ID 454 is a bottle and is suitable for pouring soda into. I have confirmed that both the cup
(ID 2) and the bottle (ID 454) are suitable for pouring soda into.
Final Answer: Yes, there is a cup and a bottle in the scene that you can pour your soda into.
Finished chain.
19

===PAGE 20===
(a) Object ID 2, category "cup".
(b) Object ID 9, category "bottle".
(c) Object ID 454, category "bottle".
(d) Object ID 1748, category "bottle".
Figure 10. The objects that are most relevant to "cup" are successfully retrieved by retrieve_objects_by_appearance in Section F.3.
20

===PAGE 21===
G. Embodied Interactions
In AI-Habitat simulator [42], we equip Embodied VideoA-
gent with the following embodied actions:
•
CHAT: Communicate with the user.
•
SEARCH: Search for the target object by navigating in
the apartment. We use Frontier-Based Exploration (FBE)
as the navigation strategy.
•
GOTO: Go to the target receptacle or object and look
at it. We use A-star Algorithm for GOTO action.
•
PICK: Pick an object in view. It is simplified as mak-
ing the object disappear and storing the object ID as the
inventory object.
•
PLACE: Place the inventory object in/on a receptacle in
view. The Place Action will first examine the precondition
for the placement by checking the bounding boxes of the
inventory object and the receptacle and the relation "in" or
"on".
•
OPEN: Open an articulated receptacle in view. Sim-
plified as applying force to the joints of the articulated
receptacles.
•
CLOSE: Close an articulated receptacle in view. Sim-
plified as applying reversed force to the joints of the artic-
ulated receptacles.
G.1. Two-Agent Pipeline
We adopt the scenes from Habitat HSSD scene dataset[22]
for embodied tasks. We choose 118 scenes from HSSD,
replacing some rigid receptacles in the original scenes with
articulated assets (fridge, microwave, etc) to enable OPEN
and CLOSE actions.
For each scene, 20 different object layouts are created.
In each layout, objects from various categories are placed
on/into the receptacles in the scene using a unique object
initialization algorithm, which initializes the positions of
the objects according to their functionality (e.g. eggs and
tomatoes are prioritized to be placed in the fridge rather than
on the bed).
The embodied interaction episodes are generated based
on two LLM agents: the User Agent (task designer) and the
Assistant Agent (Embodied VideoAgent). The prompts for
the user agent and the assistant agent are provided below. For
Embodied VideoAgent, it is equipped with both the embodied
actions and the perception tools.
You are a task designer interacting with a robot
in a room.
The room contains the following
objects: {object_list} and the following receptacles:
{recep_list}. Your goal is to engage in a casual
conversation with the robot and assign it an
open-ended task based on your needs.
Guidelines:
1. The task should involve no more than 2 objects
from the room.
2. The robot should complete the task using ba-
sic actions like GOTO, OPEN, CLOSE, PICK, and
PLACE.
3. If the robot asks for the location of an object,
prompt it to search rather than giving explicit details.
4. Use general object categories instead of specific
IDs (e.g., say "a dish sponge" instead of "dish sponge
1").
5. Adjust the task if the robot encounters difficulties.
Once the task is completed, express satisfaction and
thank the robot.
Start by initiating a casual conversation and assign-
ing a simple task!
You are acting as a robot in an apartment. The
available receptacles are: {receptacles}
Your goal is to complete the task assigned by the
user, with the following conditions:
Tools and Constraints:
You have one inventory slot, so you can carry only
one object at a time.
You can use the following tools:
{tools}
ATTENTION:
1. Use the CHAT tool frequently to communicate in
a casual manner, keeping the user informed of your
progress.
2.
For every action involving an object or re-
ceptacle, first GOTO the target and then perform
actions like PICK, PLACE, OPEN, or CLOSE.
Example:
GOTO(’glass’), then PICK(’glass’);
GOTO(’fridge’), then OPEN(’fridge’).
3. Ensure your inventory is empty before picking up
a new object.
4. The SEARCH tool can find objects by navigating
the room, but it cannot check inside articulated re-
ceptacles (like fridges or microwaves). Use GOTO,
OPEN, and CLOSE to check inside these recepta-
cles.
5. Before completing the task, use CHAT to confirm
the user’s satisfaction.
Use the following format:
21

===PAGE 22===
Task: the initial task assigned by the user
Thought: you should always think about what to do
Action:
the action to take, should be one of
[{tool_names}]
Action Input: the input to the action
Observation:
the result of the action...
(this
Thought/Action/Action Input/Observation can re-
peat N times)
Final Answer: the chat message sent to user when
the user is satisfied
Begin!
Task: {input}
Thought: {agent_scratchpad}
22

===PAGE 23===
G.2. Example 1
Figure 11 shows an interaction example using the two-agent pipeline. Given the partial scene knowledge, the user agent
asks the assistant agent (Embodied VideoAgent) to find two objects: a glass and a hard drive, to compare their surface
reflection. Embodied VideoAgent then performs the SEARCH action, which will start Frontier-Based Exploration (FBE) until
the target object is found in the view. During exploration, a glass is found on Table_2, and Embodied VideoAgent reports this
progress to the user agent. The user agent hints that the next object, the hard drive, is possibly located in an office. Embodied
VideoAgent then uses QUERY_DB tool and successfully retrieves the hard drive discovered by FBE during searching for the
glass. Embodied VideoAgent then goes to the hard drive, picks it up, and places it on Tables_2 where the glass is located for
comparison, and finally accomplishes the task assigned by the user agent.
Figure 11. An example of interaction data, which is detailed in Section G.2. Embodied VideoAgent finds the two objects (a glass and a hard
drive) requested by the user agent and places them on the same table for comparison.
23

===PAGE 24===
G.3. Example 2
In Figure 12, the user agent requests Embodied VideoAgent to find a candy bar. After navigating through the entire apartment
and checking the closed receptacles such as the fridge, Embodied VideoAgent still cannot find the candy bar, and report this
issue to the user agent. The user agent then adjusts the task, asking Embodied VideoAgent to place a lamp on one of the tables.
Embodied VideoAgent successfully retrieves the lamp stored in the object memory, which is discovered during searching for
the candy. Embodied VideoAgent finally completes the adjusted tasks by picking up the lamp, navigating to a table, and placing
the lamp on the table. This case shows that the user agent can flexibly change the task when it is too hard to be accomplished
by the robot.
Figure 12. When Embodied VideoAgent fails to accomplish the initial task assigned by the user (in this case, Embodied VideoAgent cannot
find the candy bar after searching the entire apartment), the user agent will interactively adjust the task. Finally, Embodied VideoAgent
completes the adjusted task by placing the lamb on a table.
24

===PAGE 25===
G.4. Example 3
Figure 13 is an example that demonstrates the thought of Embodied VideoAgent during the episode. The user agent first
initializes the task as setting up a cozy corner by placing a cushion on a table. Embodied VideoAgent finds the cushion after a
simple search and plans to place it on one of the tables retrieved from the memory. However, the embodied action "PLACE"
returns an exception due to the limited area of the first three tables. The thought of Embodied VideoAgent shows that Embodied
VideoAgent can dynamically change its plan according to the situation. Finally, Embodied VideoAgent finished the task by
successfully placing the cushion on the fourth table.
Figure 13. In this case, Embodied VideoAgent is asked to set up a cozy corner using the cushion. After successfully finding the cushion,
Embodied VideoAgent retrieves candidate tables from the memory for placement. Embodied VideoAgent fails to place the cushion on the first
three tables due to spatial constraints. Finally, Embodied VideoAgent successfully places the cushion on the fourth table, demonstrating the
planning ability of Embodied VideoAgent when experiencing failed embodied actions.
25

===PAGE 26===
H. Failure Cases
In this section, we will provide some failure cases of Embod-
ied VideoAgent on the perception tasks.
26

===PAGE 27===
H.1. Failure Case 1
• Question: "Where can I find something to drink"
• Ground-Truth Answer: "In the fridge below the picture frame"
• Predicted Answer: "You can find something to drink in a cozy room within an older, rustic building, possibly a lodge or an
inn, characterized by natural stone walls and floors, wooden beams, and wooden doors."
In this example, the object detector provides inaccurate object categories due to low image quality in HM3D datasets. A lamp
in frame 13 is predicted as a wine glass and a box in frame 30 is predicted as a bottle, as shown in Figure 14. During the
inference procedure, Embodied VideoAgent locates the keyframes based on the wrong categories of object 13 (wine glass) and
object 22 (bottle), which finally leads to an inaccurate answer.
Entering new AgentExecutor chain...
Thought: To find something to drink, I should look for objects related to drinking, such as ’wine glass’ or ’bottle’. I
will query the database to find these objects.
Action: query_database
Action Input: "SELECT object_id FROM Objects WHERE category IN (’wine glass’, ’bottle’)"
Result: [(13,), (22,)]
Thought: I have found object IDs 13 and 22, which are related to drinking. I need to determine in which frames these
objects appear to locate them in the scene. I will query the database to find the frames for these objects.
Action: query_database
Action Input: "SELECT frame_id FROM Objects_Frames WHERE object_id IN (13, 22)"
Result: [(13,), (30,)]
Thought: I have found that the objects related to drinking appear in frames 13 and 30. I should now determine the
environment or location of these frames to provide a more specific answer.
Action: frame_VQA
Action Input: ("What is the environment or location of the frame?", 13)
Result: Description: This image depicts a cozy room that appears to be within an older, rustic building, perhaps a
lodge or an inn. The room is characterized by a distinct blend of natural stone and wooden elements, which contribute
to its warm and inviting ambiance.
Key elements in the image include:
1. **Natural Stone Walls & Floor:** The walls and floor are made of natural stone, which adds to the rustic aesthetic.
The stone floor is speckled with darker and lighter tones, creating a mosaic-like pattern.
2. **Wooden Beams:** There are exposed wooden beams supporting the ceiling, giving a sturdy and traditional feel.
3. **Wooden Doors:** Two wooden doors are present. The door on the left is ajar, revealing a room with a wooden
table and a lamp stand. The door on the right stands tall against the stone wall.
4. **Lighting Fixtures:** A charming wall-mounted lamp with a cream shade is visible, providing warm lighting.
5. **Interior Details:** There is also a wooden chest with a unique metal clasp, suggesting it’s either a storage piece
or perhaps a decorative item.
6. **Wooden Cabinets:** The small alcove on the left features wooden cabinets, which implies functional storage
space within the room.
7. **Entrance/Exit:** There is an open gate leading into the room on the left, furthering the visual appeal of the space,
enhancing the sense of depth and accessibility within the interior.
The combination of natural materials, simple yet elegant furniture, combined with functional yet decorative items like
the chest and the lamp, make this room not just living space, but a cozy retreat that invites warmth and comfort.
Answer to the question: Based on the given image, the environment or location of the frame appears to be a residential
or small-scale hotel setting, characterized by traditional and natural elements that include stone masonry, wood
beams, and wooden floors and doors. The style suggests a countryside or historical district where such architecture is
prominent, possibly indicating a location that values historical aesthetics and authenticity
Thought: I have identified that the objects related to drinking (wine glass and bottle) are located in a cozy room within
an older, rustic building, possibly a lodge or an inn. This environment is characterized by natural stone walls and
floors, wooden beams, and wooden doors. Therefore, you can find something to drink in this cozy, rustic room setting.
Final Answer: You can find something to drink in a cozy room within an older, rustic building, possibly a lodge or an
inn, characterized by natural stone walls and floors, wooden beams, and wooden doors.
Finished chain.
27

===PAGE 28===
(a) Frame for GT answer.
(b) Frame 13 with false detection "wine glass".
(c) Frame 30 with false detection "bottle".
Figure 14. Due to poor image quality caused by scene reconstruction in HM3D, false object detections happen in frame 13 and frame 30.
Inaccurate object detections finally cause wrong temporal localization.
28

===PAGE 29===
H.2. Failure Case 2
• Question: "Could I put something on the chair by the front door?"
• Ground-Truth Answer: "Yes"
• Predicted Answer: "The chair by the front door has a small volume, so it might not be suitable for placing items on it."
In this example, Embodied VideoAgent successfully locates the chair (ID 107) by the front door as shown in Figure 15. Then,
Embodied VideoAgent decides to query the volume of its 3D bounding box to answer the question "Could I put something on
the chair by the front door". However, this chair is in the 2D texture of the scene, which fails 2D-3D lifting. The volume of its
3D bounding box (nearly being a plane) has a very small value, misleading Embodied VideoAgent into the wrong answer. In
real-world applications, obtaining object depths through mirrors (windows, etc.) could have much noise, which should be
taken into account for accurate perception.
Entering new AgentExecutor chain...
Thought: To answer this question, I need to determine if there is a chair by the front door and if it has enough space or
surface area to place something on it. First, I will identify the objects categorized as "chair" and "door" in the scene.
Then, I will check if any of these chairs are located near the front door.
Action: retrieve_objects_by_environment
Action Input: "front door"
Result: The objects in the environment ’front door’ are 493: ’door’, 107: ’chair’, 483: ’cubby shelf’, 478: ’window’,
482: ’photo frame’
Thought: I have identified that there is a chair (object ID 107) near the front door. Now, I need to determine if this
chair has enough space or surface area to place something on it. I will check the volume of the chair to get an idea of
its size.
Action: query_database
Action Input: "SELECT volume FROM Objects WHERE object_id = 107"
Result: [(0.0006219363573111673,)]
Thought: The volume of the chair near the front door is quite small, suggesting it might not have a large surface area.
However, without specific information about the chair’s design or surface, it’s difficult to definitively say whether
something can be placed on it. Given the small volume, it is likely that the chair is not designed to hold items on its
surface.
Final Answer: The chair by the front door has a small volume, so it might not be suitable for placing items on it.
Finished chain.
Figure 15. The 2D bounding box of the detected chair is not successfully 3D-lifted since it is a 2D texture in the scene.
29
